♪
c0000001
[MALE VILLAGE CHIEF 4A]
This area has always been
c0000002
difficult for ships
to navigate,
c0000003
so all sorts of things
wash up on our shore.
c0000004
In the old days,
c0000005
the entire village
used to pitch in
c0000006
and help clean up.
c0000007
But now you lack the manpower
to accomplish such a feat.
c0000008
These waters were
beautiful once.
c0000009
As clear as crystal.
c0000010
Yes, I know.
c0000011
Would you be willing
to accept this as payment?
c0000012
It's a book written by
the Legendary Mage Flamme.
c0000013
Mistress Frieren?
c0000014
Is this the only grimoire
the village has?
c0000015
Yes.
c0000016
It shall do.
c0000017
We'll restore your coast
to its former glory.
c0000018
What are you doing?
c0000019
That book is a fake.
c0000020
So, you've been studying
like I told you to.
c0000021
Good girl, Fern.
c0000022
Texts attributed to Flamme
aren't real.
c0000023
This is yet another
poor imitation.
c0000024
Then why did you
accept the job?
c0000025
Because that man
clearly needed our help.
c0000026
That must not be
your only reason.
c0000027
You're right.
c0000028
I'm doing this for me.
c0000029
Sounds like we've another
long stay ahead of us.
c0000030
[waves crashing]
c0000031
Always a joy to see
my best customer!
c0000032
I threw in something extra
just for you.
c0000033
Thank you, ma'am.
c0000034
A gift for
three months of loyalty.
c0000035
-Have you gotten used
to our village yet? -I have.
c0000036
The shore gets awfully cold
this time of year.
c0000037
You girls be careful.
c0000038
It's winter already?
c0000039
[door opens]
c0000040
[FERN]
She's still asleep.
c0000041
And this place is a mess.
c0000042
I tidied it up only yesterday.
c0000043
It's morning time.
c0000044
You need to wake up.
c0000045
There's work to do.
c0000046
[groans]
c0000047
♪
c0000048
-[groaning]
-[munching]
c0000049
[grunts]
c0000050
The shore isn't
going to clean itself.
c0000051
[sighs]
c0000052
♪
c0000053
[clattering]
c0000054
[thudding]
c0000055
[exhales]
c0000056
Chilly.
c0000057
Something occurred to me.
c0000058
What's that?
c0000059
I wonder if you might
actually be
c0000060
a rather irresponsible
sort of person.
c0000061
I wake you up at a
reasonable hour every morning,
c0000062
then get you dressed
and feed you.
c0000063
You do know,
c0000064
that I am not your mother,
don't you?
c0000065
I'm capable of
doing all that myself.
c0000066
No doubt.
c0000067
But you wouldn't be
on your feet till noon.
c0000068
Fair.
c0000069
I'm not worried about it.
c0000070
I've already given up hope.
c0000071
I apologize.
c0000072
How did you ever manage
c0000073
traveling with
the Hero's party?
c0000074
I can't imagine they would
be willing to brush your hair.
c0000075
I overslept all the time
back then.
c0000076
And you never got in
trouble for it?
c0000077
I did, actually.
c0000078
But just the once.
c0000079
Only once?
c0000080
They must have been
uniquely patient people.
c0000081
They were unique, certainly.
c0000082
Though Heiter did often
c0000083
click his tongue
in disapproval.
c0000084
[FRIEREN]
Sorry.
c0000085
-[Heiter clicks tongue]
-[EISEN] Watch it.
c0000086
[HIMMEL] I understand, friend,
but calm down.
c0000087
Oh, my.
c0000088
He gave you the
tongue click of rage.
c0000089
[clattering]
c0000090
♪
c0000091
[crackling]
c0000092
[MALE VILLAGE CHIEF 4A]
How's the big cleanup
c0000093
coming along?
c0000094
I would say that we're about
two thirds of the way there.
c0000095
Do you think it'll be ready
by the New Year's Festival?
c0000096
Barely, but yes.
c0000097
In that case,
c0000098
I sincerely hope
you'll be able to join us
c0000099
in watching the
sunrise this time.
c0000100
A sight to behold.
c0000101
[FERN]
So this whole cleanup operation
c0000102
is related to
the New Year's Festival?
c0000103
In this village,
c0000104
it's customary to
welcome the new year
c0000105
by watching the sunrise.
c0000106
It's something about
the way the light
c0000107
reflects off the clear water.
c0000108
They say that
it's quite beautiful.
c0000109
You mean you've never gotten
to see it before?
c0000110
You think that I could wake up
that early?
c0000111
That does seem unlikely.
c0000112
Let's try to hurry.
c0000113
We don't have much time.
c0000114
♪
c0000115
[waves roaring]
c0000116
♪
c0000117
[waves crashing]
c0000118
The water quality
is looking great.
c0000119
Our work is done
with a whole night to spare.
c0000120
And hardly looks like
the same beach.
c0000121
Thank you for all your
hard work, Miss Frieren.
c0000122
Tomorrow, you'll be joining us
for the festival, right?
c0000123
Right.
c0000124
[MALE VILLAGE CHIEF 4A]
We're excited to have you.
c0000125
Have you lost your mind?
c0000126
That's so early.
c0000127
There's no way you'll be
able to wake up in time.
c0000128
It would be impossible.
c0000129
Not if I simply don't sleep.
c0000130
You're that intent
on seeing the sunrise?
c0000131
To be honest,
I couldn't care less.
c0000132
That's the reason
I'd like to see it.
c0000133
I...don't understand.
c0000134
Neither do I.
c0000135
[HIMMEL] You didn't come to the
New Year's Festival with us.
c0000136
Why not?
c0000137
You broke poor Heiter's heart.
c0000138
Now he's bedridden.
c0000139
What a sensitive soul.
c0000140
[EISEN] The only thing
he's sensitive to
c0000141
are the effects of his drink.
c0000142
The rest of you got to go,
so what's the issue?
c0000143
You should've been there too.
c0000144
We wanted you to enjoy it.
c0000145
It was merely a sunrise.
c0000146
I doubt it would've
brought me any joy.
c0000147
You're wrong there.
You would've loved it.
c0000148
Why's that?
c0000149
Because you're
just that kind of person.
c0000150
♪
c0000151
[snoring]
c0000152
She's asleep.
c0000153
[snoring]
c0000154
She's asleep!
c0000155
Mistress Frieren.
c0000156
You have to wake up!
c0000157
Or else you'll be
late to the festival!
c0000158
[drowsily]
Mama...
c0000159
Who do you think you're
calling "Mama," young lady?
c0000160
Why exactly am I
doing this again?
c0000161
[groaning]
c0000162
For me, Fern.
c0000163
Thank you.
c0000164
[chuckles]
c0000165
♪
c0000166
[FRIEREN]
Hm...it's certainly pretty,
c0000167
but I wouldn't say it's worth
waking up early for.
c0000168
Maybe Himmel didn't know
c0000169
what kind of person
I was after all.
c0000170
I'm off.
I need to go back to...
c0000171
Look at it, Mistress.
c0000172
It's so beautiful.
c0000173
Oh. Is it?
c0000174
It's just a sunrise.
c0000175
Don't act tough to me.
c0000176
I can tell you're happy.
c0000177
Maybe so,
c0000178
but only because
you're smiling.
c0000179
[gasps]
c0000180
♪
c0000181
[chuckles]
c0000182
I wouldn't have been
able to see this sunrise
c0000183
if I'd been on my own.
c0000184
[FERN]
Absolutely not.
c0000185
If I weren't here,
c0000186
you'd still be
snuggled up in bed.
c0000187
[HEITER]
Are these for your family?
c0000188
[EISEN]
It happened a long time ago.
c0000189
Demons attacked my village,
c0000190
and showed no mercy.
c0000191
What are you doing?
c0000192
Praying, of course.
c0000193
We return to nothing
when we die.
c0000194
I like to think
we go to Heaven.
c0000195
Until several
thousand years ago,
c0000196
people largely accepted
that nothing comes after.
c0000197
But I know the Dwarves
value tradition.
c0000198
I myself am skeptical
about the idea of a Heaven.
c0000199
Magic can't observe
the souls of the dead,
c0000200
so an afterlife cannot
be outright proven,
c0000201
though it cannot be
disproven, either.
c0000202
I for one, don't think
it matters either way.
c0000203
I agree.
c0000204
In the grand scheme of things,
c0000205
I can't say how much
it truly matters.
c0000206
Careful now, oh, corrupt one.
c0000207
Not very priestly.
c0000208
You're right.
c0000209
But even if a Heaven
doesn't exist,
c0000210
I very much believe
that it should.
c0000211
Why's that?
c0000212
I feel it's...
more convenient that way.
c0000213
Those that kept living despite
life's hardships...
c0000214
deserve more
than just oblivion.
c0000215
Picture the alternative.
c0000216
A heavenly realm
where souls can live in luxury.
c0000217
It's a nice thought.
c0000218
♪
c0000219
Good point.
c0000220
That is more convenient.
c0000221
Let's pray.
c0000222
Let's.
c0000223
[birds chirping]
c0000224
[footsteps approaching]
c0000225
Hello, there.
c0000226
I thought I'd drop by.
c0000227
You act
as if it hasn't been 30 years.
c0000228
So not very long at all, then.
c0000229
Hm.
c0000230
[EISEN]
I suppose not.
c0000231
I never thought you
would take on an apprentice.
c0000232
Eisen,
c0000233
I came to see if there's
anything I can help you with.
c0000234
I'm not done here yet.
c0000235
I heard
you paid a visit to Heiter
c0000236
before he passed away...
c0000237
and asked him the same thing.
c0000238
How do you know about that?
c0000239
[EISEN]
Heiter and I wrote often.
c0000240
You're much friendlier
than you appear.
c0000241
Or perhaps
you're not friendly enough.
c0000242
Well...tell me,
c0000243
is there anything we could do?
c0000244
[FRIEREN]
Voll Basin.
c0000245
This takes me back.
c0000246
So, you've been here before?
c0000247
Long ago.
c0000248
"Long ago," she says.
c0000249
How long must that be?
c0000250
Probably in prehistoric times.
c0000251
Not even I
have lived that long.
c0000252
[slight grunt]
c0000253
Explain.
c0000254
[FRIEREN]
What are we looking for?
c0000255
The notes of Flamme,
the Legendary Mage.
c0000256
[groans]
c0000257
If you insist.
c0000258
But you know most of her
supposed writings are fake.
c0000259
Not this one.
c0000260
[EISEN]
I have a lead from Heiter.
c0000261
He deduced the location
from records on Flamme
c0000262
left in the holy city.
c0000263
Her genuine notes are located
somewhere in Voll Basin.
c0000264
Think back, Frieren.
c0000265
You must remember that.
c0000266
His research was in-depth.
c0000267
Quite driven
for a corrupt priest.
c0000268
Let's begin.
c0000269
We can start by
looking for a giant tree.
c0000270
A giant tree?
c0000271
That's ridiculous.
c0000272
We're in a forest full of them.
c0000273
Well,
c0000274
I suppose you do have
all the time in the world.
c0000275
That I do.
c0000276
But Fern doesn't like
when I work leisurely,
c0000277
so I'll try to be quick.
c0000278
[surprised exclamation]
c0000279
[short grunt]
c0000280
Let's search
as efficiently as possible.
c0000281
[EISEN]
You've changed.
c0000282
You never cared about
other people's time before.
c0000283
That's all Fern.
c0000284
She's scary when she's mad.
c0000285
[chuckling]
Good to know.
c0000286
I'll watch myself.
c0000287
♪
c0000288
[short grunt]
c0000289
Mistress Frieren.
c0000290
I spotted a large tree
c0000291
growing over some ruins
to the west of here.
c0000292
This way.
c0000293
Meet you there.
c0000294
Eisen?
c0000295
I understand
wanting those notes,
c0000296
but why now?
c0000297
Because I felt sorry for you.
c0000298
Huh?
c0000299
Not just you, I suppose.
c0000300
I felt sorry for Himmel, too.
c0000301
[EISEN]
30 years ago, at his funeral,
c0000302
you said that you wished
c0000303
you would have gotten
to know him better.
c0000304
In my humble opinion,
c0000305
you should tell that
to Himmel himself.
c0000306
According to legend,
c0000307
Flamme's notes discuss
her conversations with the dead
c0000308
and how she achieved
those meetings.
c0000309
Nothing more than a fairy tale.
c0000310
And such dialogue with Himmel
is far from my mind.
c0000311
You know more than most
c0000312
that all magic
started as fairy tales.
c0000313
And don't you want to learn
more about your lost friend?
c0000314
That's why I brought
this up to Heiter.
c0000315
It was evident
that you had regrets.
c0000316
We wanted to help you
through them.
c0000317
♪
c0000318
A barrier.
c0000319
And a powerful one.
c0000320
It's protecting both the tree
and the ruins.
c0000321
It's been over
a thousand years now,
c0000322
and here I am dancing in the
palm of my master's hand.
c0000323
[FRIEREN] How is that
going to keep watch?
c0000324
[FLAMME]
Aw, don't sell it short.
c0000325
This little sapling'll grow.
c0000326
In a thousand years,
c0000327
it'll still be
protecting this place.
c0000328
Probably so,
but you'll be dead by then.
c0000329
Well, sure, but you won't be.
c0000330
Someday down the line,
c0000331
you're going to make
a horrid mistake,
c0000332
and you'll wish you had gotten
to know the people around you.
c0000333
Are you asking
I get to know you?
c0000334
How needy.
c0000335
Yeah, not quite.
[chuckles]
c0000336
All that I'm saying is
when the inevitable happens...
c0000337
return to this place.
c0000338
And I,
the Legendary Mage Flamme,
c0000339
will be here to help.
c0000340
♪
c0000341
So, those...
c0000342
are Flamme's notes?
c0000343
And we're certain they're real?
c0000344
They are.
c0000345
How can you be so sure?
c0000346
Frieren was Flamme's
best student.
c0000347
Flamme, the hero
from my textbook?
c0000348
Are you telling me that
Frieren used to be her student?
c0000349
And we're positive that
she doesn't predate history?
c0000350
Does it say anything about
speaking with the dead?
c0000351
[FRIEREN] It was already open
to that very page.
c0000352
So she knew
a thousand years ago
c0000353
that I would come
back here someday.
c0000354
What an unpleasant woman.
c0000355
[FRIERN, FLAMME]
"On the very northernmost
c0000356
end of the continent,
c0000357
I arrived at the place
c0000358
the people of this world
call "Heaven."
c0000359
I now know it as "Aureole,"
c0000360
the land where souls rest.
c0000361
Many spirits have
gathered there.
c0000362
I spoke with friends
whom I once fought alongside.
c0000363
It was the discovery
of a lifetime...
c0000364
and will hopefully propel
c0000365
the research on souls forward."
c0000366
Do you think
any of that is true?
c0000367
Who can say?
c0000368
She was rather irresponsible.
c0000369
Heaven exists.
c0000370
It's more convenient
if it does.
c0000371
-[gasps]
-You're right.
c0000372
I should try believing
for a change.
c0000373
Do you have any idea exactly
where this place might be?
c0000374
Let me ponder.
c0000375
If it's in the North,
c0000376
Ende.
c0000377
But that's where...
c0000378
That's correct.
c0000379
It is now home
to the Demon King's castle.
c0000380
Why would it be
in such a place?
c0000381
Frieren...
c0000382
you must go to Aureole
c0000383
and speak with Himmel.
c0000384
You said you would help me,
did you not?
c0000385
[short gasps]
c0000386
You've picked up a few tricks.
c0000387
Where?
c0000388
I think we both know
the answer to that.
c0000389
I'll do it then.
c0000390
We needed a destination.
c0000391
Though I hate to think I'll be
passing through the tundra
c0000392
around the
Demon King's castle.
c0000393
Maybe I don't want to go.
c0000394
This is going to be
an uphill battle.
c0000395
She's already dead asleep.
c0000396
As carefree as ever.
c0000397
[groans]
Too cold.
c0000398
I don't wanna freeze
out there.
c0000399
Sleep whining.
c0000400
It is really that frigid around
the Demon King's castle?
c0000401
[sighs]
c0000402
[EISEN]
Conquering Ende's terrain
c0000403
is no small feat.
c0000404
It's at the northernmost
end of the continent.
c0000405
We braved much more
than the cold in that place.
c0000406
I'm sure
c0000407
It feels a little too quiet.
c0000408
I think she's napped
for long enough.
c0000409
-[groaning]
-Naptime's over.
c0000410
-Rise and shine.
-[grunts]
c0000411
-[gasps]
-[mumbling]
c0000412
Well, I tried.
c0000413
-Say, Fern.
-Hm?
c0000414
Is that elf
a good teacher to you?
c0000415
That's a fair question.
c0000416
I don't know the answer.
c0000417
She just drags me around on her
aimless search for new spells.
c0000418
[FERN]
I'm always at her mercy.
c0000419
That said,
c0000420
her interest in getting
to know Himmel
c0000421
and the rest of your party
has given her some direction.
c0000422
When it comes to me,
c0000423
I find that she is
significantly less interested.
c0000424
The reason she took me on
in the first place
c0000425
was because Master Heiter
asked her to.
c0000426
I see.
c0000427
But, well,
c0000428
she does care in her own way.
c0000429
Whenever my birthday
comes around,
c0000430
she picks out some sort of
present for me.
c0000431
She usually seems indifferent
to my presence.
c0000432
I'm curious what goes
through her mind.
c0000433
She's a mystery.
c0000434
[snoring]
c0000435
♪
c0000436
[HIMMEL]
Frieren,
c0000437
you won't be staying
in the royal capital?
c0000438
I'm going to keep traveling.
c0000439
All by yourself?
c0000440
It's easier that way.
c0000441
You're not going to
take on an apprentice?
c0000442
A journey is better
with someone to talk to.
c0000443
I fear it would be
a waste of time.
c0000444
No matter how much
I teach them,
c0000445
they'll surely die.
c0000446
-[chuckles]
-[sighs]
c0000447
How cheery.
c0000448
That's not how
relationships work.
c0000449
That's how they work for me.
c0000450
Just consider our adventure.
c0000451
It's taken up less than
one one-hundredth of my life.
c0000452
You should understand, Eisen.
c0000453
I, hm...
c0000454
♪
c0000455
That's enough!
c0000456
No time for
such depressing talk!
c0000457
Today is a day for
celebration and glee!
c0000458
Let us toast!
c0000459
It sounds like somebody wants
an excuse to drink more!
c0000460
Was the veil so thin?
c0000461
The veil was transparent.
c0000462
The corrupt priest
strikes again.
c0000463
[laughing]
c0000464
Fern...
c0000465
that elf is a great teacher.
c0000466
[slight chuckle]
c0000467
[FERN]
You're right.
c0000468
♪
c0000469
You're really
not coming with us?
c0000470
Correct.
c0000471
It's as I told you before,
c0000472
I would only get in your way.
c0000473
All right.
c0000474
You remember the path to Ende,
don't you?
c0000475
Yes, we'll go through
the Wille region,
c0000476
then we'll cross Riegel Canyon
c0000477
and find the northern land's
checkpoint.
c0000478
Forgive me.
c0000479
You have a long journey ahead.
c0000480
It took the four of us
ten years.
c0000481
[gasps]
c0000482
I see.
c0000483
So, we'll be following
the same route you took
c0000484
to the Demon King's castle
on your first journey.
c0000485
♪
c0000486
That we will.
c0000487
Another brief,
ten-year adventure.
c0000488
[BOY 4A] Think I can be
a strong warrior like you?
c0000489
[FERN] You only gather
the strangest of spells.
c0000490
[FRIEREN]
...defeated the dragon?
c0000491
[STARK]
That's ridiculous.
c0000492
[FERN]
This is a phantom of the dead.